the hubble telescope orbits our planet
looking out at the big unknown universe
since it's out of our atmosphere the
hubble can see way further than
telescopes on land
no clouds up there this guy helped us
confirm the theory about supermassive
black holes in the center of galaxies
it also discovered a whole bunch of new
galaxies including the world's oldest
one
which is about 8 billion years older
than our own
but let's travel 25 light years away to
another special star
fomo halt it's one of the brightest
stars in the night sky
and it's in the constellation southern
fish it's almost twice as big and heavy
as the sun
if you look at it from far away you can
see a bright yellow disk around it
it's a debris disk full of bits of space
rock and it's huge
its width is about 25 times the distance
from the earth to the sun
scientists were curious about it was all
this space dust gonna get smushed
together
and become a planet one day but then
they saw something else right there
through all that debris
was a massive mysterious object a large
yellow dot
orbiting the star it looked like it was
skating around a cosmic ice rink
so in 2008 scientists announced they had
discovered an exoplanet
called fomalhaut b it was the first
planet outside of our solar system
that we could actually see with our own
eyes
it's hard to know how heavy it is
probably like a couple of mars is put
together
and it lives pretty far from its host
star about four times the distance from
the sun to neptune
one year on the planet would be the same
as 1700 earth years
we'd all be babies over there
so one question does the planet even
really exist
scientists said around arguing about it
then in 2012
the trustee hubble telescope came up
with some new data
it was real all along if it was a gas
giant like jupiter or saturn
that would make it incredibly young 10
times younger than earth
and all that dust around it seems to
shine non-stop
you'd have to wear sunglasses 24 7.
but now it's disappeared again nothing
but a donut of debris so
maybe it was destroyed by a giant
asteroid like the one that wiped the
dinosaurs off the face of the earth
or it may have been crushed by a rogue
planet
these are planets that fly around the
galaxy without a clear orbit
maybe the dust is all that's left from a
head-on collision
or maybe something went crazy in the
planet's core
and it exploded from within
scientists now believe that fomalhaut b
was never actually a planet in the first
place
it was just the leftovers of two big
rocks smashing together
from far away that kind of massive
collision would actually just look like
a yellow dot
these two colliding space rocks must
have been at least 125 miles
wide that's like dc to philadelphia-wide
but this isn't the first time a plan is
just up and disappeared from view
scientists thought they'd found an
earth-sized planet orbiting our neighbor
alpha centauri they called it alpha
centauri bb
not exactly flashy plus in the end it
turned out it didn't exist
oops scientists make mistakes just like
the rest of us
not long ago they thought there might be
life on venus
they found traces of a special gas
phosphate
which can be a sign of life it was the
top story for a month
but then someone decided to double check
the data there was some phosphine
floating around
but not nearly as much as they thought
travel back in time a couple hundred
years and you can find
even sillier mistakes back then people
believe that the sun
revolved around the earth and then our
planet was the center of the whole
universe that's because they didn't have
fancy equipment to measure stuff
people saw the sun rise in the east and
set in the west
that was enough to say that the sun
revolved around us
so what happened to that planet
basically
the hubble took a photo of the whole
star system but since it's so far away
the photo came out kind of blurry
scientists just saw a large yellow dot
and assumed it was a planet scientists
don't usually get photos of far-off
planets
they normally have to use math to find
them space objects are in a constant
dance with one another
the dance gives off a lot of energy like
gravitational energy and light energy
it's like this say your friend is hiding
behind a corner
you can't see him but you can see his
shadow on the floor
it's kind of like what scientists do
when they look out into the stars
searching for planets
so big deal a planet vanished billions
of miles from here
but what if our perfectly balanced solar
system were to lose one of its planets
you better believe it would affect our
lives
mercury is up first good news is too
small to have a gravitational effect on
our planet
so we wouldn't even notice if it went
missing
next in line is venus this hot planet is
sometimes called earth's twin sister
it's completely uninhabited of course
other than that
venus is one of the brightest spots in
our night sky
pull it out of the solar system and whoa
it's much darker at night
but still not exactly a big deal
mars life without mars might even be
good for the earth
there's an asteroid belt between mars
and jupiter
mars gravity can grab an asteroid from
the belt
spin it around and catapult it toward us
without mars the asteroids would stay in
place
thanks to jupiter's gravity jupiter's
heavier than
all the planets in our solar system
combine it holds back the asteroid belt
and its gravity is actually strong
enough to affect the earth
a couple of thousand years after it
disappears we'd notice
big changes we'd move closer to the sun
which means a couple of things
one we'd have much hotter weather all
year round
and two our days weeks and years would
be shorter
saturn uranus and neptune are all too
far away for us to notice if they go
missing
that just leaves one no not pluto what
if the moon disappeared
basically chaos the earth would tilt
even more than it already does
and the weather worldwide would go crazy
even crazier than now
it might even lead to a new ice age
the earth would start spinning a lot
faster so instead of 24 hours in a day
we might have anywhere between 6 to 12
and even though nights would be a whole
lot shorter
they'd also be darker than ever when we
see the moon
we're actually seeing the sun reflecting
its light off the moon
and even a new moon is usually the
brightest object in the night sky
if the sun were to disappear from our
sky it would be pretty much game over
this star is the center of our whole
solar system without it
the orbits of all the planets would
collapse and we'd move around in
complete chaos
the earth the moon and all the other
neighboring planets would just shoot out
into the universe
heading for well we just don't know
daytime would be a thing of the past
we'd need the sun for that
so it would be nighttime forever we'd
probably never see the moon again
we'd probably never see anything again
the earth would get colder and colder
and all the water on the planet would
gradually freeze
but what if the sun turned into a black
hole we might still orbit around it
hopefully we're far enough away from it
to stay safe
mercury and venus might be swallowed up
but we might get lucky so
we'd stay where we are but we wouldn't
have the sun to warm us
if it happened slowly enough we might be
able to adapt
we'd need a new power source a new light
source and plants would have to adapt to
get their energy from
somewhere else we'd probably need to
build a huge tent like thing
over every city forest ocean or
we might just jump ship and move to
another planet